Ball placement rules 2023 (#6)
RoboCup-SSL/technical-challenge-rules: 2023/2023-ssl-ball-placement-rules.adoc

:source-highlighter: highlightjs

= RoboCup 2022 SSL Ball Placement Technical Challenge Rules
{docdate}
:toc:
:sectnumlevels: 0

// add icons from fontawesome in a up-to-date version
ifdef::backend-html5[]
++++
<link rel="stylesheet" href="https://use.fontawesome.com/releases/v5.3.1/css/all.css" integrity="sha384-mzrmE5qonljUremFsqc01SB46JvROS7bZs3IO2EmfFsd15uHvIt+Y8vEf7N7fWAU" crossorigin="anonymous">
++++
endif::backend-html5[]

:icons: font
:numbered:

NOTE: References to the male gender in the rules with respect to referees, team
members, officials, etc. are for simplification and apply to both males and
females.

== Goals of the Technical Challenge

Given the goal of preparing Division B teams to participate in Division A, this
technical challenge aims to incentive Division B teams to develop one of the
skills needed to play a match in Division A. In this case, the challenge is to
autonomously place the ball using the robots ("*AutoPlacement*").

=== Participation Requirements

> All Division B teams are eligible and *must* participate in this challenge.

Reviewer: I thought we decided against mandatory participation, because we can not *force* teams to do anything after all

Author: So, maybe a 'should' is better?

Reviewer: 'are encouraged' ?

== Procedure

The Ball Placement Technical Challenge will be executed using the Game Controller manual controls. Therefore, the procedure is as
follows:

* The Game Controller, SSL Vision and at least one Auto Referee must be already
  running
* Make sure the game state is First Half or Second Half

> * The desired position must be setted in Game Controller

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The desired position must be set in Game Controller
```

> * The ball must be placed in the indicated position

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The ball must be placed at the indicated position
```

* The robot(s) must be placed on the middle line of the field
* When all positions are correct, the challenge will start
* A *Stop* command will be issued for *2 seconds*

> * Then, the *AutoPlacement* command will be issued

Reviewer: The command is actually called `BALL_PLACEMENT_BLUE` and `BALL_PLACEMENT_YELLOW` in the protocol. Not sure, where this `AutoPlacement` is coming from.

> The AutoPlacement command includes a *game state*, which will be

Reviewer: The terminology does not match that of the rules or the GC. `BallPlacementBlue` is not a game state.

Try to use the terms that are used in the rule book and/or in the .proto files.

Author: I think this phrase referes for the Tool used for the HW Challenges. I will just remove it and let the part that starts with "Before and after...".

*BallPlacementBlue*, and the requested ball position. Before and after those
commands the game is in Stop state, therefore, the robots are allowed to
position themselves wherever they want before the placement starts, while
following all Stop state rules.

The rules for the AutoPlacement can be found in the
link:https://robocup-ssl.github.io/ssl-rules/sslrules.html#_ball_placement[rule book].

The starting and desired positions of the ball can be seen in the Appendix at
the end of the document. The "Start" is the starting position, and the
"Goal" is the position where the ball must be placed.

> In scenarios 6 and 7, the ball must be placed with an **Y** value, such that

Reviewer: The formulation should be improved. That's not understandable on the first reading :upside_down_face:

the robot cannot get between the ball and the wall.

*Teams are allowed to use up to 6 robots*.

== Evaluation

> Every team places the ball in the same scenarios and has 30 minutes for complete the scenarios. The 30 minutes considers the time for complete the challenges and the time for setup the scenarios, like positioning the ball each try. There are no restrictions about the quantity of tries per scenario, since each team has your strategy to complete the challenge within the time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every team places the ball in the same scenarios and has 30 minutes to complete all scenarios. The 30 minutes considers the time for completing the challenges and the time for setting up the scenarios, like positioning the ball each try. There are no restrictions on the quantity of tries per scenario, since each team has your strategy to complete the challenge within the time.
```

Reviewer: What does `your strategy` mean?

In total, there will be *8 scenarios* in this challenge. The order of the
scenarios will be chosen by the team before the challenge begins, communicating the order for the TC.

=== Scoring

For every scenario, the following criterias will be evaluated.

* Touching the ball with the dribbler -- +1

> * Moving the ball more than 1 meter away from the starting position -- +1

Reviewer: 1 meter does not work for one scenario, where the distance is less than 1 meter. I've not calculated the exact distance, but make sure that it is less than what you ask for here. Moving the ball 0.5m should also be sufficient. If the distance in the scenario is less, I'd suggest to change the scenario.

* Completing the ball placement -- +1
* Completing the ball placement in less than 30 seconds -- +1

> * The ball, when the challenge is finished, is less than 1 meter away from the desired position -- +1

Reviewer: That's one way to score it :+1: 

What I had in mind is: Often, teams get the ball quite well close to the target position, but fail to keep it there and instead kick it away. So why not give teams a point for having the ball close to the target position at least once (like within about 0.5 m)

Author: Hmm, I think we can consider that, but do you think we can give teams more points if, at the end of the try, the ball is less than 0.5 meter away too?

Reviewer: sure, that's also a valid way. And we can use both probably.

But let's stick with one distance. 0.5 meters sounds good, let's use it for all the distances. We can temporarily add a circle with this radius to any field-visualizer to be able to judge it during the challenge.

For the scenarios 6, 7 and 8, there will a additional criteria for taking the ball from the boundary.

* Taking the ball out from the boundary -- +1

> The points will be counted one time per scenario. For example, if the robot touches the ball with the dribbler both tries, only 1 point will be given for the team in this scenario.

Reviewer: I would just say: The best try will count, that's easier.
